Task Overview
The task involved setting up and building the Bahmni-Core module, which is part of the Bahmni open-source platform for healthcare management. The goal was to clone the repository, build the project, and generate the .omod file.

Steps Taken
1.	Cloning the Repository:
o	Cloned the Bahmni-Core repository from GitHub using the URL: https://github.com/Bahmni/bahmni-core.
o	Bash code: git clone https://github.com/Bahmni/bahmni-core.git

2.	Setting Up the Environment:
o	Ruby Installation: Installed Ruby 2.2 or higher, as required by the project.
o	Compass Installation: Installed Compass 1.0.3 to compile Sass files, which are used for styling in the project.
o	Bundler: Installed Bundler to manage Ruby gem dependencies, ensuring the correct versions are used. 
o	Bash code: gem install bundler -v 2.4.22
               gem install compass

3.	Building the Project:
o	Navigated to the cloned repository and executed Maven commands to build the project. The build process involves compiling the source code and creating the .omod file, which is a module file for OpenMRS.
o	Bash code: cd bahmni-core
o	Bash Code: ./mvnw clean install -DskipTests

4.	Handling Errors:
o	Addressed issues related to missing Sass files and incorrect file paths. Ensured that the necessary files like variables.scss were either created or correctly referenced.
o	Managed Maven build errors by configuring environment variables and updating Maven settings.

5.	Final Output:
o	The build was successful, generating the .omod file. The file bahmnicore-omod-1.2.0-SNAPSHOT.omod was found in the target directory.

Challenges Faced
•	Dependency Issues: Encountered issues with Ruby gem installations due to SSL certificate verification failures and version mismatches. Resolved by adjusting Ruby and gem versions.
•	File Path Errors: Faced errors related to missing or unreadable Sass files. Fixed by verifying and correcting file paths in the config.rb file and ensuring all required files were present.

Solution Summary
•	Ensured the environment was correctly set up with appropriate versions of Ruby, Compass, and Bundler.
•	Corrected file paths and configurations to successfully compile Sass files and build the project.
•	Successfully built the project and generated the .omod file, which is essential for deploying the module in OpenMRS.

Conclusion
The task was completed successfully by addressing various configuration and dependency issues. The .omod file generated can now be used with OpenMRS to extend its functionality with the Bahmni-Core module.

